New integration release: zeek v1.0.0 (#16499)
DataDog/integrations-core: zeek/README.md

## Overview

> * Zeek is the world's leading platform for network security monitoring. It interprets what it sees and creates compact, high-fidelity transaction logs, file content, and fully customized output, suitable for manual review on disk or in a more analyst-friendly tool like a security and information event management (SIEM) system.

Reviewer: nit: I think you could include a link to [their website](https://zeek.org/)

Author: Done

## Overview

> * [Zeek][6] is the world's leading platform for network security monitoring. It interprets what it sees and creates compact, high-fidelity transaction logs, file content, and fully customized output, suitable for manual review on disk or in a more analyst-friendly tool like a security and information event management (SIEM) system.

Reviewer 2: We have updated this as per the latest review comments

> * [Zeek][6] is the world's leading platform for network security monitoring. It interprets what it sees and creates compact, high-fidelity transaction logs, and file content. It can create fully customized output, suitable for manual review on disk or in a more analyst-friendly tool like a security and information event management (SIEM) system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Zeek][6] is the world's leading platform for network security monitoring. It interprets what it sees and creates compact, high-fidelity transaction logs, and file content. It can create fully customized output, suitable for manual review on disk or in a more analyst-friendly tool like a security and information event management (SIEM) system.
```

> This integration provides visualization and log enrichments for Connection Logs, DNS & DHCP Logs, Network Protocols, Files, Detections and Miscellaneous eventtypes.

Reviewer 2: We have updated this as per the latest review comments

> #### Supported Logs:

Reviewer 2: We have updated this as per the latest review comments

> - Opensource Zeek - JSON Format

Reviewer 2: Done

To install the Zeek integration, use the `datadog-agent integration install` command and follow the steps below. For more information, see the [Integration Management][7] documentation.

Linux command
  ```shell
  sudo -u dd-agent -- datadog-agent integration install datadog-zeek==1.0.0

>   ```

Reviewer: The integration will be shipped by default with Agent 7.52+. This step is only needed for older Agent. Could you update that part? See https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/tree/master/tenable, which is also a log integration whipped with the agent

> To install the Zeek integration follow the steps below:

Reviewer 2: We have updated this as per the latest review comments

> 1. [Install][7] the 1.0 release (`zeek==1.0.0`)

Reviewer 2: Done

> **Opensource Zeek:**

Reviewer 2: Done

1. [Install the Agent][4] on your Zeek machine.

> 2. Setup json-streaming-logs package

Reviewer 2: We have moved the child steps out to the parent level

>    - Install [Corelight Zeek plugin][5] for JSON logging

Reviewer 2: Done

     ```
     /opt/zeek/bin/zkg install corelight/json-streaming-logs
     ```

>    - Load ZKG packages

Reviewer 2: Done

     ```
     /opt/zeek/bin/zeekctl install
     ```
     ```
     /opt/zeek/bin/zeekctl restart
     ```

#### Corelight Zeek
* Have the [Datadog Agent][4] installed and running.

### Configuration

#### Log collection

#### Opensource Zeek
1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in `datadog.yaml`.
    ```yaml
    logs_enabled: true
    ```

> 2. Add this configuration block to your zeek.d/conf.yaml file to start collecting your Zeek logs.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Add this configuration block to your `zeek.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your Zeek logs.  
```

> 2. Add this configuration block to your `zeek.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your Zeek logs.  

Reviewer: It would be great to add a link to the example configuration file we have in integrations-core. This is what we do for most of our integrations

>    - Restart the zeek

Reviewer 2: Done

 **Note**: Include the log file's paths within the `exclude_paths` parameter to prevent the ingestion of unsupported or undesired log files during the monitoring process.

>  eg.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> **Corelight Zeek:**

Reviewer 2: Done

> * You have the [Datadog Agent][4] installed and running

Reviewer 2: Done

> 1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in datadog.yaml:

Reviewer 2: Done

> 2. Add this configuration block to your zeek.d/conf.yaml file to start collecting your Zeek logs.

Reviewer 2: Done

>     ```

Reviewer 2: Done

    logs:
    - type: file
        path: /opt/zeek/logs/current/*.log
        exclude_paths:
          - /opt/zeek/logs/current/*.*.log
        service: zeek
        source: zeek
    ```
**Note:** Ensure to include the log file's paths within the `exclude_paths` parameter to prevent the ingestion of unsupported or undesired log files during the monitoring process.
  

> eg.

Reviewer 2: Done

>   ```

Reviewer 2: Done

  exclude_paths:
    - /opt/zeek/logs/current/ntlm.log
    - /opt/zeek/logs/current/radius.log
    - /opt/zeek/logs/current/rfb.log
  ```

3. [Restart the Agent][1].

**Corelight Zeek:**

> 1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in datadog.yaml:

Reviewer 2: Done

    ```
    logs_enabled: true
    ```

> 2. Add this configuration block to your zeek.d/conf.yaml file to start collecting your logs

Reviewer 2: Done

>     ```

Reviewer 2: Done

    logs:
    - type: tcp
      port: <PORT>
      service: corelight
      source: zeek
    ```

3. [Restart the Agent][1].

> 4. Configuring Syslog Message Forwarding from corelight

Reviewer 2: This step is part of the Corelight Zeek configuration in sync with the above step.

    1. Access the Corelight Sensor UI:  

>        - Open a web browser and navigate to the IP address or hostname of your Corelight sensor.

Reviewer 2: Done

>        - Log in with your administrative credentials.

Reviewer 2: Done

>     2. Navigate to the Zeek Configuration Page:  

Reviewer 2: Done

>        The exact path may vary depending on your sensor's firmware version. Look for options related to "Zeek" or "Logging".  

Reviewer 2: Done

>        Common paths include:  

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>         - Settings > Logging

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>         - Configuration > Zeek > Logging

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>     3. Enable Syslog Output:

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>         - Locate the option to enable syslog output for Zeek logs.

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>         - Select the checkbox or toggle to activate it.

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>     4. Specify Syslog Server Details:

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>        Provide the following information:

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>        - Syslog server IP address: The destination where you want to send the Zeek logs.

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>        - Syslog port: The port on which the syslog server is listening (typically 514).

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>        - Facility: The syslog facility to use.

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>        - Severity level: The minimum severity of events to send.

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>     5. Save and Apply Changes:  

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

>        - Click the "Save" or "Apply" button to commit the configuration changes.

Reviewer 2: Done. we have restructured the step as per the suggestion.

### Validation

[Run the Agent's status subcommand][2] and look for `zeek` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

> The zeek integration does not include any metrics.

Reviewer 2: Done

### Events

> The zeek integration does not include any events.

Reviewer 2: Done

### Service Checks

> The zeek integration does not include any service checks.

Reviewer 2: Done

> ### Metrics

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

### Metrics
```

## Troubleshooting

**Opensource Zeek:**

> If you see a **Permission denied** error while monitoring the log files, see the following instruction

Reviewer 2: Done

>    1. Give read permission to dd-agent user to monitor the log files

Reviewer 2: Done

>       ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  ```yaml
```

Reviewer 2: Done

>       sudo chown -R dd-agent:dd-agent /opt/zeek/current/

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  sudo chown -R dd-agent:dd-agent /opt/zeek/current/
```

Reviewer 2: We have kept it in the ```shell ``` block because this is a linux command.

>       ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  ```
```

Reviewer 2: We have kept it in the ```shell ``` block because this is a linux command.

>   ```sh

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  ```shell
```

**Corelight Zeek:**

#### Permission denied while port binding:

If you see a **Permission denied** error while port binding in the Agent logs, see the following instructions:

>    1. Binding to a port number under 1024 requires elevated permissions. Follow the instructions below to set this up.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   1. Binding to a port number under 1024 requires elevated permissions. Grant access to the port using the `setcap` command:
```

>       - Grant access to the port using the `setcap` command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

         ```
         sudo setcap CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE=+ep /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
         ```

>       - Verify the setup is correct by running the `getcap` command:

Reviewer 2: Done. We have restructured the step.

>          ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
         ```shell
```

Reviewer 2: Done

         sudo getcap /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
         ```

         With the expected output:

         ```
         /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent = cap_net_bind_service+ep
         ```

         **Note**: Re-run this `setcap` command every time you upgrade the Agent.

>    2. [Restart the Agent][1].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   1. [Restart the Agent][1].
```

Reviewer 2: We have restructured the step.

#### Data is not being collected:

Make sure that traffic is bypassed from the configured port if the firewall is enabled.

#### Port already in use:

If you see the **Port <PORT-NO\> Already in Use** error, see the following instructions. The example below is for PORT-NO = 514:

On systems using Syslog, if the Agent listens for Zeek logs on port 514, the following error can appear in the Agent logs: `Can't start UDP forwarder on port 514: listen udp :514: bind: address already in use`.

This error occurs because by default, Syslog listens on port 514. To resolve this error, take **one** of the following steps:
- Disable Syslog
- Configure the Agent to listen on a different, available port

> For any further assistance, do contact [Datadog support][3].

Reviewer 2: Done

## Overview

> [Zeek][6] is the world's leading platform for network security monitoring. It interprets what it sees and creates compact, high-fidelity transaction logs, and file content. It can create fully customized output, suitable for manual review on disk or in a more analyst-friendly tool like a security and information event management (SIEM) system.

Reviewer 4: Could we call this [Corelight / Zeek][6] instead of just Zeek?

Author: Since we call the integration Zeek and plan to support both Open Source Zeek and Corelight Zeek Implementation, Zeek seems reasonable but please let me know your views and we can discuss and make changes as needed.

This integration provides visualization and log enrichments for Connection Logs, DNS & DHCP Logs, Network Protocols, Files, Detections, and Miscellaneous event types.

> 

Reviewer 4: Please clarify or change "log enrichments". Also, would like to have added:
- what are some examples of logs?
- why would users want to ingest them into the platform?
- what benefits do they get from provided visualizations?

Reviewer 2: Done

> This integration ingests Connection logs, DNS and DHCP logs, Network Protocols, Files, Detections, and Miscellaneous event types with the integration log pipeline to enrich the logs and normalizes data to datadog standard attributes. This integration offers visualisations to gain detailed insights into network connections, DNS and DHCP activity, detailed network protocol analysis, file analysis and certificates, security detection and observation, compliance monitoring, etc. via dashboards.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This integration ingests the following logs:
- Connection logs
- DNS and DHCP logs
- Network Protocols
- Files
- Detections
- Miscellaneous event types 

Visualize detailed insights into network connections, DNS and DHCP activity, detailed network protocol analysis, file analysis and certificates, security detection and observation, compliance monitoring through the out-of-the-box dashboards.
```

## Setup

### Installation

> To install the Zeek integration, use the `datadog-agent integration install` command and follow the steps below. For more information, see the [Integration Management][7] documentation.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To install the Zeek integration, run the following agent installation command and the steps below. For more information, see the [Integration Management][7] documentation.
```

**Note**: This step is not necessary for Agent version >= 7.52.0.

Linux command
  ```shell
  sudo -u dd-agent -- datadog-agent integration install datadog-zeek==1.0.0
  ```

#### Opensource Zeek
1. [Install the Agent][4] on your Zeek machine.
2. Setup json-streaming-logs package
   - Install [Corelight Zeek plugin][5] for JSON logging
     ```
     /opt/zeek/bin/zkg install corelight/json-streaming-logs
     ```
   - Load ZKG packages
     ```
     echo -e "\n# Load ZKG packages\n@load packages" >> /opt/zeek/share/zeek/site/local.zeek
     ```
   - Restart the zeek
     ```
     /opt/zeek/bin/zeekctl install
     ```
     ```
     /opt/zeek/bin/zeekctl restart
     ```

#### Corelight Zeek
* Have the [Datadog Agent][4] installed and running.

### Configuration

#### Log collection

> 

Reviewer 5: Will this be filled out?

Reviewer 6: No explicit need to add configuration since it gets covered in below sections.

Reviewer 5: Can these subheadings be removed then?

Author: Done

#### Opensource Zeek

> 1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in `datadog.yaml`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in `datadog.yaml`:
```

## Data Collected

### Logs

The Zeek integration collects following log-types.

| Format     | Event Types    |
| ---------  | -------------- |
| Opensource Zeek - JSON Format | conn, dhcp, dns, ftp, http, ntp, rdp, smtp, snmp, socks, ssh, ssl, syslog, tunnel, files, pe, intel, notice, signatures, traceroute, known-certs, known-modbus, known-services, known-hosts, software, x509, dpd, weird, captureloss, reporter, ldap, ldap-search, smb-files, smb-mappings |
| Corelight Zeek - Syslog RFC 3164 (Legacy) Format | conn, dhcp, dns, ftp, http, ntp, rdp, smtp, snmp, socks, ssh, ssl, syslog, tunnel, files, pe, intel, notice, signatures, traceroute, known-certs, known-modbus, known-services, known-hosts, software, x509, dpd, weird, captureloss, reporter, ldap, ldap-search, smb-files, smb-mappings, conn-long, conn-red, encrypted-dns, generic-dns-tunnels, smtp-links, suricata-corelight |

### Metrics

The Zeek integration does not include any metrics.

### Events

The Zeek integration does not include any events.

### Service Checks

The Zeek integration does not include any service checks.

## Troubleshooting

> **Opensource Zeek:**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
###Opensource Zeek:
```

If you see a **Permission denied** error while monitoring the log files, give read permission to dd-agent user to monitor the log files.

  ```shell
  sudo chown -R dd-agent:dd-agent /opt/zeek/current/
  ```

> **Corelight Zeek:**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
###Corelight Zeek:
```

> #### Permission denied while port binding:

Reviewer 5: I would switch these around

```suggestion
**Permission denied while port binding:**
```

If you see a **Permission denied** error while port binding in the Agent logs, see the following instructions:

   1. Binding to a port number under 1024 requires elevated permissions. Grant access to the port using the `setcap` command:

      - Grant access to the port using the `setcap` command:

         ```shell
         sudo setcap CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE=+ep /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
         ```

      - Verify the setup is correct by running the `getcap` command:

         ```shell
         sudo getcap /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
         ```

         With the expected output:

         ```shell
         /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent = cap_net_bind_service+ep
         ```

         **Note**: Re-run this `setcap` command every time you upgrade the Agent.

   2. [Restart the Agent][1].

> #### Data is not being collected:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Data is not being collected:**
```

Make sure that traffic is bypassed from the configured port if the firewall is enabled.

> #### Port already in use:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Port already in use:**
```

## Data Collected

### Logs

The Zeek integration collects following log-types.

| Format     | Event Types    |
| ---------  | -------------- |
| Opensource Zeek - JSON Format | conn, dhcp, dns, ftp, http, ntp, rdp, smtp, snmp, socks, ssh, ssl, syslog, tunnel, files, pe, intel, notice, signatures, traceroute, known-certs, known-modbus, known-services, known-hosts, software, x509, dpd, weird, captureloss, reporter, ldap, ldap-search, smb-files, smb-mappings |
| Corelight Zeek - Syslog RFC 3164 (Legacy) Format | conn, dhcp, dns, ftp, http, ntp, rdp, smtp, snmp, socks, ssh, ssl, syslog, tunnel, files, pe, intel, notice, signatures, traceroute, known-certs, known-modbus, known-services, known-hosts, software, x509, dpd, weird, captureloss, reporter, ldap, ldap-search, smb-files, smb-mappings, conn-long, conn-red, encrypted-dns, generic-dns-tunnels, smtp-links, suricata-corelight |

### Metrics

The Zeek integration does not include any metrics.

### Events

The Zeek integration does not include any events.

### Service Checks

The Zeek integration does not include any service checks.

## Troubleshooting

### Opensource Zeek:

> If you see a **Permission denied** error while monitoring the log files, give read permission to dd-agent user to monitor the log files.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If you see a **Permission denied** error while monitoring the log files, give the `dd-agent` user read permission on them.
```
